.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2016 J. M. Spivey
.TH OBC 1
.SH NAME
obc \- Oberon\-2 compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B obc
.RI [ OPTION ]... FILE ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B Obc 
is the Oxford Oberon compiler.
It translates source files written in a language that is almost (but
not quite) Oberon\-2, translates them into a portable bytecode
form, and links the bytecode with library code to produce an
executable program.
.LP
Files with extension
.B .m
or
.B .mod
are assumed to contain the source code of Oberon modules.  They are
translated into bytecodes before linking.
Files with extension
.B .k
are assumed to be bytecode files produced by earlier compilations.
These bytecode files also contain interface information about the
module that is used in compiling other modules that import it.
All the files named on the command line are linked to form an
executable program, unless the
.B \-c
option is specified.  When the program is executed, the bodies of each
module are executed in the order they appeared on the
.B obc
command line; thus each module should be listed before other modules
that import it.

Bytecode and executable files produced by the compiler are
machine-independent.  The same executable can be run without change on
multiple machines of different architectures, provided the Oberon
run-time system has been installed appropriately on all of them.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -c
Stop the compiling process after producing a
.B .k
file; do not attempt to produce an executable program.
.TP
.B \-o \fI\,FILE
Set the output file for linking.
.TP
.B \-I \fI\,DIR
Add DIR to the list of directories to search for imported modules.
.TP
.B \-07
Accept the Oberon-07 dialect of the language.
.TP
.B \-x
Enable language extensions.
.TP
.B \-rsb
Accept a dialect of the language where both language
keywords (like 'begin' and predefined identifiers (like 'integer') are
written in lower case.
.TP
.B \-O0
Turn off the peephole optimiser \- mostly used for compiler debugging.
.TP
.B \-w
Turn off compiler warnings about dubious constructions in the source
code.
.TP
.B \-b
Disable runtime checks for null pointers, array bounds, etc.,
sacrificing safety for the sake of screaming speed.
.TP
.B \-v
Print the versions of OBC components, and print the commands that are
used for compiling and linking.
.TP
.B -d \fI\,N
Set the compiler debugging level to N; this adds tracing information
to the normal output of the compiler, but may result in output that
cannot be assembled and linked.
.TP
.B \-s
Strip the symbol table from the output of the linker.  This makes it
impossible to use the profiler or debugger on the resulting
executable.
.TP
.B \-j0
Produce an executable that will run using the bytecode interpreter in
place of the JIT translator.
.TP
.B \-k \fI\,N
Set the runtime stack size to N bytes (default 1MB).
.PP
The remaining flags are supported on Linux and on Macs with XCode
installed; they are not supported by the normal Windows installation
of OBC.
.TP
.B \-C
Build a specialised version of the runtime system into the executable,
containing only the primitives that are needed, and allowing
additional primitives to be added.
This makes the executable larger, but makes it stand-alone.
.TP
.B *.c
Files of C code containing primitives.
.TP
.B *.o
Files of object code for primitives.
.TP
.B \-l \fI\,LIB
(with \-C) Add the C library LIB to the runtime system.
.TP
.B \-L \fI\,DIR
(with \-C) Add DIR to the list of directories searched for C
libraries.
.TP
.B \-p
(with \-C) Link in the profiler in place of the standard runtime
system.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I file.m, file.mod
Oberon source text
.TP
.I file.k
Bytecode and interface definition
.TP 
.I /usr/local/lib/obc/obx[j]
Runtime system
.TP
.I /usr/local/lib/obc/*.m
Library sources
.SH BUGS
The language accepted by the compiler has some differences from that
described in the Oberon\-2 report.  Ask the author for details.
.SH AUTHOR
Mike Spivey
